.\" Copyright Georgios Portokalidis, 2004.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the conditions described
.\" in the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 2, June 1991
.\" that should have been distributed together with this file.
.\"
.TH AUTHDB_MANAGE 8 "May 18, 2004" "Version 0.8" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
authdb_manage \- Admission control resources database manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "authdb_manage [" R "] " db_directory " " db_filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
A console menu driven interface to manage the databases used by admission
control for resource control.
.br
.IR db_directory " specifies the directory where the database files are located
and
.I db_filename
is the name of the file containing the databases. The optional parameter
.I R
can be used to try and recover a corrupted database, in case for example
authd(8) crashes. The databases need to be in Berkeley DB (http:/
www.sleepycat.com) format and should be stored in a single file.
.P
.B authdb_manage
can be used to manage:
.IP \(bu 2
Function names
.IP \(bu 2
Library names
.IP \(bu 2
Available resources for library\-function pairs
.IP \(bu 2
Resource consumption of library\-function pairs
.P
When first run,
.B authdb_manage
prints a menu with the above mentioned entities.
When one of them is selected the user is presented with the following database
actions:
.P
.BR "1. List" "   [ list stored entities ]"
.br
.BR "2. Insert" " [ insert a new entity ]"
.br
.BR "3. Delete" " [ delete an entity ]"
.br
.BR "0. Return" " [ return to the previous menu ]"
.P
Below we describe the different entities that can be manipulated.
.P
.B FUNCTIONS
.br
Each function must have a unique name and a 32 bits integer key. Only the lower
16 bits of the key can be set by the user and it shouldn't be 0. Note that
these values are not checked for correctness by
.BR "authdb_manage" .
.br
Additionally a function can be set to have 'global resource consumption' which
means that its resource consumption is the same for all libraries. This will
cause the upper 16 bits of the key to be asserted.
.P
.B LIBRARIES
.br
A library must have a unique name and a 32 bits integer key. Only the lower 16
bits of the key can be set by the user and it shouldn't be 0. Note that these
values are not checked for correctness by
.BR "authdb_manage" .
.P
.B RESOURCES
.br
A resource must have a unique 32 bits integer key and it shouldn't be zero. Note
that this value is not checked for correctness by
.B "authdb_manage" .
.br
Resource availability is also represented by a 32 bits integer. Optionally a
description string can also be specified.
.P
.B RESOURCE CONSUMPTION
.br
Resource consumption is specified for each library\-function pair.
The user is prompted to select a library and a function from the ones existing
in the databases (when a function is set to have 'global resource consumption',
the user is still prompted for a library but the selection is ignored).
.br
Resource consumption has a fixed part and a variable one. The fixed one is a 32
bit integer value representing the fixed cost to be assigned to each occurrence
of the function by resource control. The variable cost is calculated at runtime
by taking into account the values of the function's arguments. For this reason
the user is prompted to enter a formula that will be used to calculate this
cost. The formula is a simple arithmetic expression that can contain the
following operators: +, -, *, /, (, ). The values of the function's arguments
can be inserted in the formula by using printf like notation. For example an
integer 2nd argument would be represented as '%2$d' and 1st unsigned long long
argument as '%1$llu'. In case of strings their size is replaced in the formula
and functions are ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B "authdb_manage /etc/authd/resctrl resource.db"
.P
Start the manager for the database file \'resource.db\' located in \'/etc/authd
resctrl\'
.SH SEE ALSO
authd(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Georgios Portokalidis (gportoka@liacs.nl)
.SH NOTES
If
.B authdb_manage
is not terminated properly the latest changes to the databases
might not have been stored. Even tough Ctrl-C from the keyboard is blocked,
users should take special care to exit the application normally.
.br
This utility is only provided as quick way to setup a resource control database
and is not in any was the best way to manage a continuously growing database.
.br
Special care should be take when setting variable cost formulas, since bad
illegal argument types and numbers, could cause authd(8) to crash.
