.\" Copyright Georgios Portokalidis, 2004.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the conditions described
.\" in the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 2, June 1991
.\" that should have been distributed together with this file.
.\"
.TH AUTHDFE 8 "May 6, 2004" "Version 0.8" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
authdfe \- Admission control daemon front\-end
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "authdfe [" OPTIONS "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
A front-end for the admission control daemon authd(8).
.P
.B authdfe
permits applications that cannot directly send requests to authd (using
IPC) to do so through it. It needs to be run on a host already running authd,
since it uses IPC itself to contact admission control. Admission control is
exported through the network and the filesystem.
.P
The front-end establishes an Internet server that is listening for TCP
connections. Requests are received through these connections and are then
forwarded to admission control. The results are transmitted back through the
same connection. SSL is supported to authenticate clients and/or the server,
and to encrypt transmitted requests and results.
.br
Note that when using SSL, unencrypted connections are not allowed.
.P
The front-end can also use the filesystem to read requests and write results.
This feature should be used along with the linux kernel module device driver
authdev. This enables the kernel to send requests to user-space using
authdev_submit(9).
.P
authfe is multithreaded. A number of threads is spawned when first run and are
used to service incoming connections. An additional thread is also created when
accepting requests for a device file.
.SH OPTIONS
.\" hostname
.TP
.BI "\-H, \-\-host=" HOSTNAME
.RI "Bind server to " HOSTNAME ". Default is any."
.\" port number
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-port=" PORT_NUMBER 
.RI "Use port number " PORT_NUMBER ". Default is 7914."
.\" threads number
.TP
.BI "\-e, \-\-threads=" THREADS_NUM
.RI "Use " THREADS_NUM " number of threads to serve requests. Default is 5."
.\" network timeout
.TP
.BI "\-b  \-\-nettimeout=" TIMEOUT
.RI "Set the network timeout to " TIMEOUT " seconds. Default is 0." 
.br
This option sets the timeout for read and write operations on the client
sockets. If it is not set synchronous I/O is performed. It is highly
recommended to set a timeout or a misbehaving client could block a serving
thread forever.
.\" admission control timeout
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-servtimeout=" TIMEOUT
.RI "Set the admission control daemon timeout to " TIMEOUT " seconds. Default is
1 second
.br
This option sets the timeout for receiving results from authd. It should also be
set to non-zero to avoid blocking threads forever.
.\" ipc pathname
.TP
.BI "\-P, \-\-ipcpath=" PATH
.RI "Use " PATH " to generate IPC key for admission control shared memory and
semaphores. Default is \'/tmp/.authd\'.
.\" ipc id
.TP
.BI "\-i, \-\-ipcid=" CHARACTER
.RI "Use " CHARACTER " to generate IPC key for admission control shared memory
and semaphores. Default is \'A\'.
.\" persistent connections
.TP
.B "\-r, \-\-persistent"
Allow persistent connections.
.br
When set clients can submit more than one requests on the same connection. In
any other way connections will be closed after receiving a request and
transmitting the corresponding response. It should be used along the -n options
to avoid blocking for requests indefinitely.
.\" device file interface
.TP
.BI "\-d, \-\-dev=" DEVNAME
Starts an additional thread reading requests from character device file named
.IR DEVNAME "."
.\" SSL
.TP
.B "\-s, \-\-ssl"
Enable SSL secure socket layer for connections. Note that non\-SSL connections
will no longer be accepted.
.\" server certificate
.TP
.BI "\-c, \-\-cert=" FILENAME
.RI "Use server certificate contained in file " FILENAME " when using SSL.
Default is \'server.pem\'
.\" server
.TP
.BI "\-k, \-\-priv=" FILENAME
.RI "Use private key contained in file " FILENAME " when using SSL. Default is
\'server.key\'
.\" help
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.\" rest of man file
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero if terminated successfully by receiving one of the :
.BR SIGINT ", " SIGQUIT " or " SIGHUP
signals and non-zero on error.
.SH FILES

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "authdfe \-p 466 \-n 1 \-r \-s"
.P
Starts
.B authdfe
listening on port 466, with a network timeout of 1 second. Persistent
connections are allowed and SSL is enabled.
.SH SEE ALSO
authd(8), openssl(1), authdb_manage(8), authdev_submit(9), keynote(1),
keynote(4), keynote(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Georgios Portokalidis (gportoka@liacs.nl)
.SH NOTES
IMPORTANT this version of
.B authfe
doesn't support marshalling, thus will not work properly when the client and the
front-end lie in machines having different byteorder or different number sizes.
Future versions of
.B authdfe
will support this.