.\" Copyright Georgios Portokalidis, 2004.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the conditions described
.\" in the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 2, June 1991
.\" that should have been distributed together with this file.
.\"
.TH AUTHD_SETUP 8 "May 28, 2004" "Version 0.8" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
authd_setup.sh \- Admission control setup script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B authd_setup.sh
.IB install "|" uninstall "|" policy "|" keys "|" credentials 
.SH DESCRIPTION
A script to help setting up a system for admission control. It creates default
files needed by authd(8) for operation and furthermore can be used to generate
credentials.
.br
Clients can also use it to generate key pairs.
.P
For more fine grained control keynote(1) should be used directly to generate
keys. Note that client keys need to be RSA.
.P
On how to write policy files consult keynote(5).
.P
Note that this script cannot be used to initialise resource control. Please read
\'doc/RESOURCE_CONTROL.txt\' and authdb_manage(8) for more information. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.RI "" install " [ " user_id " ] [ " pathname " ]" 
.RI "Install all necessary files for admission control in " pathname " using
.RI "user id " user_id ". Defaults are \'/etc/authd' and the active user id."
Files installed include public, private key and a policy. Additionally the file
\'/tmp/\.authd\' is created to be used for IPC communication. If you wish to
use another file you can, by specifying it when running authd.
.TP
.RI "" uninstall " [ " pathname " ] "
.RI "Uninstall the files installed in " pathname ". It will also remove the
directory if it is empty. \'/tmp/.authd\' will also be removed.
.TP
.RI "" policy " [ " user_id " ] [ " pathname " ]"
.RI "Create a default policy file, install it in " pathname " and set 
.RI "ownership to " user_id "."
.TP
.RI "" keys " [ " key_size " ] [ " pubk_name " ] [ " privk_name " ]" 
.RI "Create an RSA key pair of " key_size " bits and store the public key to
.RI "file " pubk_name " and the private key to " privk_name "."
Default key size is 1024 bits and default filenames are \'pub.key\' and
\'priv.key\'.
.TP
.RI "" credentials " " pubkey " " conditions " " output " [ " path " ]"
.RI "Create and sign credentials storing them in file specified by " output "."
The licensee of the credentials is the public key contained in file
.I pubkey
.RI "and the conditions used are from file " conditions "."
.RI "If " path " is specified then admission control's keys are looked up there
instead of the default location \'/etc/authd\'.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero if terminated successfully, or non-zero on error.
.SH FILES
/etc/authd/authd_key.pub, /etc/authd/authd_key.priv, /etc/authd/policy, 
tmp/.authd
.SH EXAMPLES
.B "authd_setup.sh install authd"
.br
Install files in standard location \'/etc/authd\' and set ownership to user
'authd'.
.P
.B "authd_setup.sh keys 2046 mypub mypriv"
.br
Create a key pair of 2046 bits size and store public key to \'mypub\' and
private key to \'mypriv\'.
.SH SEE ALSO
authd(8), authdb_manage(8), keynote(1), keynote(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Georgios Portokalidis (gportoka@liacs.nl)

