.\" Copyright Georgios Portokalidis, 2004.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the conditions described
.\" in the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 2, June 1991
.\" that should have been distributed together with this file.
.\"
.TH AUTHD 8 "April 22, 2004" "Version 0.8" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
authd \- Admission control daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "authd [" OPTIONS "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B authd
provides authorisation services to other services. It performs
authentication and authorisation solely based on the data received and a local
policy, thus it shouldn't be used directly by the entities requesting
authorisation. It should be used by services carrying out actions on behalf of
other entities and wish to apply some control on the actions performed. These
services can prepare a request based on the actions requested and the
credentials of the requesting party to receive authorisation according to the
policy of admission control.
.P
The keynote trust-management system is used to validate actions against a set of
credentials. The format is as specified in RFC 2704. Credentials can also be
delegated from one entity to another. More details on keynote and credentials
can be found in the man pages listed at the end of this manual.
.P
.B authd
uses shared memory IPC to communicate with its clients. Synchronisation is
performed using a set of semaphores. Required files include a policy according
to which authorisation is performed along with a public/private key pair. These
files are expected to lie in \'/etc/authd\'. The shared memory is writable by
the user and group id 
.B authd
is running as. This means that for communication to be possible, clients
need to belong in the same group or run as the super-user id.
.P
Optionally, resource control can be used. Resource requirements are calculated
for each action and then aggregated. The summation of required resources is
then checked against the credentials, and for availability. Note that resources
are not consumed by resource control, instead a structure containing the
resources required is returned.
.B authd
clients can consume the resources themselves. A Berkeley database (http:/
www.sleepycat.com) containing available resources and resource consumption is
required. Such a database can be created using authdb_manage(8). The database
should be named \'resource.db\' and is expected to lie in \'/etc/authd
resourcectrl\'.
.SH OPTIONS
.\" daemon
.TP
.B "\-d, \-\-daemon"
Run as a daemon in the background.
.\" policy
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-policy=" filename 
.RI "Read policy from " filename ". Default is \'/etc/authd/policy\'."
.\" ipc pathname
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-shmpath=" pathname
.RI "Use " pathname " to generate IPC key for shared memory and semaphores.
Default is \'/tmp/.authd\'.
.\" ipc id
.TP
.BI "\-i, \-\-shmid=" character
.RI "Use " character " to generate IPC key for shared memory and semaphores.
Default is 'A'.
.\" resource control db path
.TP
.BI \-D, \-\-dbhome=" path
.RI "Set directory where resource control database is located to " path "."
Default is \'/etc/authd/resourcectrl\'.
\" resource control db file name
.TP
.BI \-b, \-\-dbname=" name
.RI "Set filename where resource control database is located to " name "."
Default is \'resource.db\'.
.\" disable resource control
.TP
.B "\-R, \-\-rc"
Enable resource control, requires that resource control was enabled at compile
time.
.\" verbosity
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Print verbose messages for each client's request.
.\" help
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.\" rest of man page
.SH EXAMPLES
.B "authd \-d \-R \-v"
.P
Start
.B authd
in the background, using resource control and printing verbose
messages.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero if terminated successfully by receiving one of the:
.BR SIGINT ", " SIGQUIT " or " SIGHUP
signals and non-zero on error.
.SH FILES
.IR /etc/authd/policy ", " /etc/authd/authd_pub.key ", "
.I /etc/authd/authd_priv.key
.SH SEE ALSO
authdfe(8), authdb_manage(8), keynote(1), keynote(4), keynote(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Georgios Portokalidis (gportoka@liacs.nl)

